# Week 1

Welcome to the first week of the 2022-2023 Coding AWOL. 

# Email list
samantha.r.leask@gmail.com, tallen@compassk12.org, marmoore@compassk12.org, lbrown@compassk12.org, jmorganle09@gmail.com, lukawinfrey@gmail.com, hwalsh@compassk12.org

https://github.com/snowmac/awol-compass/blob/master/2022-2023/09072022.md


# Roster - What's your email? 
* Kai Leask 
samantha.r.leask@gmail.com
* Tristian Allen
tallen@compassk12.org
* Xander Davis -- missing
* Marcus Moore
marmoore@compassk12.org
* Lucas Brown
lbrown@compassk12.org
* Jay Leask
jmorganle09@gmail.com
* Hendrix Walsh
hwalsh@compassk12.org
* Luka Winfrey
lukawinfrey@gmail.com

# Introduction

* I'm Adam Bourg. I'm 33 years old married to Christin Bourg and we have 1 child, a son, Luke 
* Luke is in his first year of Childrens house 
* Christin is a teacher in the high school this year
* I've been around compass 7 years, this is my second year teaching an AWOL 
* I'm a professional software engineer, currently employed by a big accounting firm (PwC) 
* In my free time I love to teach programming, aurge with idiots on the internet and cook
* I first learned programming, basic HTML and CSS, when I was 12

# Course Format

* This course works best as a lab format
* I will present a concept, show you some code, discuss an idea and you will eventually copy that code onto your own workspace and run that code
* After I've exhausted what I've prepared for the day, you're free to experiment with the computer and mess around with the code we've written 
* If you need to use the bathroom or leave, please have the courtesy to let me know (Hey Adam, I'm going to the bathroom)
* I generally take a break between 1 and 1:30 for 5 minutes so people can catch up or use the bathroom 

# What is programming
* Programming is more like a very specific instructions on how to bake a cake, then it is a math equation
* Yes, there is math theory behind programming, but you will almost never encounter it outside of academics 
* If you can count, add and subtract, you too can program. Infact computers really only know how to add, subtraction is just a shifting exercise, same with division and multiplication; computers just loop until it's done. 
* Baking a cake is pretty specific order of operations, programming is even more specific in that it doesn't just tell you what to do, but how to do it. 

# Bake a microwave cake
(https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/241038/microwave-chocolate-mug-cake/) 
* To bake a microwave cake you need the following: 
* 1/4 cup flour 
* 1/4 cup white sugar
* 2 tablespoons cocoa powder
* 1/8 teaspoon baking soda
* 1/8 teaspoon salt
* 3 tablespoons milk
* 2 tablespoons oil 
* 1 tablespoon water
* 1/4 teaspoon vanilla

What a yummy dish, to make this dish you would: 
1. Mix all the dry ingridents into a microwave safe cup
2. Stir in Milk, oil, water and vanilla 
3. Microwave until the middle is done, approx 1 minute and 45 seconds
4. Serve with a bowl of ice cream on the side 

# This is specific but programming is more specific

Generally you don't do something weird like take the milk then mix the flour, then add salt, microwave and then add everything else then microwave again. You go through it step by step. But notice I never told you how to do this recipe. It's implied you have a measuring cup, you have measuring spoons, you know where they are, you know where the supplies are and they're readily available to you. 

If I were to give these instructions to a computer it wouldn't know what to do! I need to tell it very percise instructions: 

```js
start in kitchen();
walkSteps(5);
openPantryDoor();
pullOutObject('Flour Container'); 
closePantryDoor(); 
walkSteps(-5);
setObjectOnCounter('Flour Container'); 
openObject('lid', 'Flour Container'); 
scoop('.25 cup', 'flour');
dump('.25 cup').into('bowl'); 

walkSteps(5);
openPantryDoor();
pullOutObject('Sugar Container'); 
closePantryDoor(); 
walkSteps(-5);
setObjectOnCounter('Sugar Container'); 
openObject('lid', 'Sugar Container'); 
scoop('.25 cup', 'Sugar');
dump('.25 cup').into('bowl'); 

and so on. 

```

As you can see, with a computer I have to tell it specific steps to take such as walking, scooping, dumping and eventually mixing and baking. 

These specific steps are what we call an algorithm, the definition is: 

```
al·go·rithm
/ˈalɡəˌriT͟Həm/
A process or set of rules to be followed in calculations or 
other problem-solving operations, especially by a computer.
```
# Algorithms

Algorithms are just specific steps a computer has to take to solve a problem. They can be as stupid as 'deleteOperatingSystem' or 'powerSurge' or as mundane as 'incrementCounter', 'resetClock'

# ();//.{} etc... 

What's with the //();,.?  This is the syntax of the languages we work in. Typically:
* The back slashes "//" denote comments. This code is ignored
* The parentheses symbol "()" refer to a function or order of operations
  * Eg, callMyFunction()
  * Or, var x = (4+3) / (23 * 4)
* The semicolon ";" is used to mark the end of a line 
* The period "." is used to call a function (AKA method) on an object
  * eg: JSON.stringify({label:"Hello World", type: "input"})
* The brackets "{}" denote an object, aka object literal notation

There are many more, but those are the most simple / direct ones so far 

# Code Pen

Please visit <a href="codepen.io">codepen.io</a> and sign up for an account using your school email. 

# 5 minute pause here so everyone can get signed up 

# Pause 

# Pause

# Next steps

The main bit of this course will be teaching game development using Phaser which is an HTML based game framework. <a href="https://phaser.io">https://phaser.io</a> 

What's all this web server junk and setting things up? Generally something we're not going to worry about unless we really had to. 

# Code Pen Example of Phaser

https://codepen.io/wiserim/pen/zYGWwwE

https://codepen.io/spoike/pen/LYYerBN

# CDN url for Phaser

https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/phaser@3.2.1/dist/phaser.js


# What is HTML, CSS, and Javscript

HTML - Hypertext markup language 
CSS - Casacading Style Sheets -> color, look, feel, layout
Javascript - Langauge of the web. Java programming language != javascript. 

```html
<h1> Hello World </h1>
```

```html
<!Doctype HTML>
<html>
    <head>
        <title>My fancy page title </title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" />
        <script type="text/javascript"> 
        
        </script>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1> Hello World! </h1>
    </body>
</html>
```


# Making our first game 

We're going to follow along a tutorial and make a game together. https://phaser.io/tutorials/making-your-first-phaser-3-game/part1

# Part 2 Asset Paths

In part 2, we're going to use my webhost to serve the images. Here are the URLs: 

```text
https://assets.codepen.io/6828145/star.png
https://assets.codepen.io/6828145/platform.png
https://assets.codepen.io/6828145/dude.png
https://assets.codepen.io/6828145/bomb.png
https://assets.codepen.io/6828145/sky.png
``` 

